>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
let's start by getting into our pairs and
just pseudocoding out our
linked lists together.
So the first thing we need to do would
be write a constructor function.
>> off screen male: I don't know if I did
it right, but what I did was
the function takes just a node as
a parameter, and
then it sets this.head equal to node and
this.tail equal to node.
>> off screen female: What happened?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sorry.
>> off screen male: Does it take the node
as a parameter or
just the data that we're storing?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Depends on your
implementation.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
so what do you mean?
So-
>> off screen male: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Do you mean
this is gonna take an actual node,
which has the next property?
Or is this gonna be the data, like 11.
>> off screen male: It
doesn't really matter.
It just takes the data cuz it
doesn't have a child property yet.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> off screen male: So on the actual
linked list object, I created a head and
a tail property and
set both of those,
>> off screen male: Equal to the.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Whoops,
cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Set to
the value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we're setting it
to the value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There's one little
thing that we need to do here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Anyone?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
we'll discover what it is, okay.
>> off screen male: Do we need to have
a place for the reference to the next one?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> off screen male: But it's gonna be
null, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> off screen male: Okay.
[LAUGH] Yeah, I didn't add a child
reference until the add to tail function.
In the first pass through I set
an undefined child element to the tail.
But then I didn't see why I was doing it,
so I removed that.
And I just have,
in the add to tail method,
I set tail.child equal to the next value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
that makes sense.
So one thing that we can
put in here is a node
constructor.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's separate
from our linked list constructor.
And this can pass, we can say it's
a new node and we can pass the value.
And so, in our node constructor,
this is where we wanna say this.value,
this.next.
We wanna set it to null, not undefined,
because just the best practice
to set things to null and let
the computer set things to undefined, so
that you know the programmer set it
to null, not it just wasn't defined,
and there's some error somewhere.
>> off screen male: Purposefully done?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, exactly.
Cool, so this.head,
we probably wanna set it actually
to the node.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Awesome,
so how do we add to the tail?
>> off screen male: In my implementation,
I did just a function that takes a node or
you could have it take a value and
then use our node constructor again.
And then all I did was
set this.tail.childs, or
what you're calling next, to the node.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Set tail.
>> off screen male: Yeah,
set tail.next.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Tail's next to
the value.
>> off screen male: To the node.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Or to the node,
yeah, to the node.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So probably,
you might wanna create a node from value.
>> off screen male: And
then update the tail to be equal to the.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great, so
we have some pointers, right?
We have our head pointer and
our tail pointer.
And these make operations much
faster in our linked list, right?
Otherwise, we might have to traverse
through the entire linked list.
But if we have a pointer to the tail,
that makes adding to the tail, what?
>> off screen male: Fast.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Fast, constant time,
great.
What about removing a node?
>> off screen male: I
wasn't super happy with this, but
what I came up with was just again,
taking a node as a parameter, and
then setting a temporary variable I
called parent equal to the head,
or equal to this.head.
And I did a while loop, while
parent.next is not equal to the node and
parent.next is not equal to null,
set parent equal to parent.next.
So it starts at the head and goes through
each one till it finds the one that
has the child we're looking for.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so just so
I can catch up with you typing.
You were saying, so
you set the parent to head.
>> off screen male: Yeah, and
then while the parent's next is not equal-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's not
null.
>> off screen male: And
also not what we're looking for.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Or
node.
>> off screen male: Then just
set parent equal to parent.next.
Are we searching?
Yeah, that's what I, I couldn't figure
out how to get the head of the one
we were looking for
without starting at the beginning.
So then once it exits this loop,
it will have found the parent to our node.
And so then it just sets that
next equal to our node's next.
So parent.next equals
node.next outside the loop.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so when found,
set the parent.next to the child's next,
right?
Or the node in question's next, right?
>> off screen male: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, all right.
How do you feel?
>> off screen male: Yeah,
I didn't like that we were
starting at the beginning, but
I couldn't think of a better way to do it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, does
anyone have a better way of doing this?
>> off screen male: I
thought that remove meant removing
the child node of the current node.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
this one is removing any node in the list.
If you want to remove the tail, right?
That would be a constant time,
we have a pointer to that.
If we have a pointer to the parent,
and that's what you're saying.
Your implementation was you have a parent,
and
then you say you wanna
remove the next node.
Yeah, cool, awesome.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any questions?
>> off screen male: Is there a better
way to do it than to start it?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No,
with your constraints and
it being a singly linked list,
you don't have a reference to the parent,
you have to find it,
yeah.
>> off screen male: So you're saying you
really have to loop for this?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> off screen male: So is there a way to
do it without the head and
tail property on the linked list itself?
Could you do it with just
giving the nodes the links and
not having an implementation of
the linked list that stores the head and
the tail?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So the reason we
have the head and tail is because it
makes a lot of operations easier.
So you can add to the tail
in constant time,
you can remove this tail in constant time,
stuff like that.
But you do need a reference to the head.
Cuz otherwise,
you wouldn't know where to start,
yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and so,
this remove method has a search in it.
And that kind of exposes one of
the things that makes a linked list
slow is whenever you need to
search versus an array, right?
If we're comparing it to our arrays,
or stacks and queues, well actually,
stacks and queues are the same thing.
But an array, if we wanna find,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Something,
it's just a constant time lookup.
Yeah, all right, so
are we ready to code this out and
do some exercises with this?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is that a yes?
Or do you have more questions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
let me have one more question.
>> off screen male: What's
the context in which you'd
use this remove node method?
So when are you calling it?
Is it inside something else?
I don't know.
I'm trying to get some context because
initially, we did an if statement.
So basically, if there was no reference to
another node, that means it's the tail.
So we remove the previous object
reference and then return the node.
But otherwise, we just change
the reference to the following
object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So wait, sorry,
you said that you're
just doing remove from
tail?
>> off screen male: Or
if it's not the tail,
if it has a reference already,
if the previous one has a reference,
then it's not.
Okay, I just confused myself.
The one we're removing, okay,
so if the one we're removing
has a reference to another one,
that means it's not the tail.
So we just remove the previous
object's reference-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So you have to find-
>> off screen male: Change that to
the last one, to the following one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
there is no way in a singly linked
list to go from the current one,
backwards.
>> off screen male: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right, you can't do
dot previous in this implementation.
>> off screen male: Could you do, well but
you'd have to call it a parent.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do you mean?
>> off screen male: Never mind, I'm
confusing myself the more I talk, so-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No,
I think you have a good point.
Like, you could,
if you had a link to the previous node,
you could do that really easily.
Right, because all you'd have to do is
redirect the parent nodes next to the next
next, which is the child's next, right.
>> off screen male: But
you're saying there's no link there,
so you don't know what it is.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right now there isn't,
and that would be an optimization,
right, is to add a previous, or
P-R-E-V is usually what we say,
to make a doubly linked list.
>> off screen male: Got
it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> off screen male: Okay, that makes
sense.
Is that what it's called,
a doubly linked list?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, mm-hm, yep.